---
identifier: faq
title: Frequently Asked Questions
linktitle: /resources/faq
date: 2019-08-07T10:57:21-05:00
layout: withtoc
menuname: faqMenu
---

# Frequently Asked Questions

## Compose Services


<h4>I installed Compose Services, how do I create a program and a project?</h4>

Please refer to corresponding
[Gen3 Documentation](https://gen3.org/resources/operator/#5-programs-and-projects)
to create your first program and project.


<h4>I created a program, but I see `NotFound` error when I try to create a
project within my program.</h4>

Please make sure you inserted program `name` in the URL, not
`dbgap_accession_number`.


<h4>I can not submit data to the project I just created.</h4>

Please ensure you granted yourself permissions in the `user.yaml` file. You can
find this file in the `Secrets` folder within your Compose Services folder.
Follow provided in the file example to grant yourself relevant permissions. You
can find more information in the
[Setting Up Users](https://github.com/uc-cdis/compose-services#setting-up-users)
documentation.


<h4>User.yaml contains information about program/project, but I still can not
access it.</h4>

Please ensure you are using `dbgap_accession_number` value as an identifier for
the `auth_id` field, not program's `name` or project's `code`.


<h4>I see a warning about my connection not being private.</h4>

Don't worry. The warning about connection not being private appears because
`creds_setup.sh` script generated self-signed SSL certificate to allow
microservices to communicate with each other without bypassing SSL verification.
Your browser can not verify this certificate. Once you install a trusted SSL
certificate instead of generated by our script, this warning will go away.


<h4>I want to run Compose Services on the server, how do I configure
 it.</h4>

To configure Compose Services with your domain, please change the `BASE_URL`
field in the `fence_config.yaml` file, and the `hostname` field in the
`peregrine.json` and `sheepdog.json` files.


<h4>I'm trying to upload files with gen3-client, but received an error 
`x509: certificate signed by unknown authority`.</h4>

You can add self-signed certificate to your trusted certificates. Steps may
vary depending on Operating System you use.


## Cloud Automation


<h4>I'm setting up a CSOC-free instance, what should I set for the 
`config_folder`?</h4>

The `config_folder` variable sets the location of your `user.yaml` file. If you
are using a local file, you can put any value - it won't be used. If you are
using any of our `user.yaml` files, then you may need to know which one. If you
are neither using ours nor local, you can also put a random value, and then
later when deploying kubernetes, you will be able to point the location of your
permissions file.


<h4>I modified the `user.yaml` file. How to update Arborist?</h4>

If you run `gen3 job run usersync` changes should be picked up automatically.
If you don't want to run that command every time you make changes to your
`user.yaml`, you can deploy the cronjob `gen3 job run usersync-cronjob` and
kubernetes will check for changes every hour and update services accordingly.


<h4>How do I change the title of my webpage from the default "Generic Data Commons"?
Automation?</h4>

You can override the default configuration in your commons by using
`gitops.json` file. Set your `portal_app` to `gitops` in your file
`cdis-manifest/your-commons-name/manifest.json`. Then create
`cdis-manifest/your-commons-name/portal/gitops.json` file. You can use [this
file](https://github.com/uc-cdis/data-portal/blob/master/data/config/default.json)
as a template for your own `gitops.json` file. Set navigation title and login
title at your choice. Then reroll portal with `gen3 kube-setup-portal`.


<h4>I updated the Fence configuration. Why haven't the changes taken effect?</h4>

After updating the Fence configuration, run `kubectl delete secret
fence-config`, `gen3 kube-setup-fence` and roll Fence for configuration changes
to take effect with `gen3 roll fence`.


<h4>GraphiQL on Query page form throwing errors.</h4>

You may need to hit the `Switch to Graph Model` button in the upper right
corner.


<h4>How to run SNS service?</h4>

Please refer to [Cloud
Automation](https://github.com/uc-cdis/cloud-automation/tree/master/tf_files/aws/modules/data-bucket-queue)
documentation.


<h4>Arborist and Sheepdog don't work as expected, what should I check?</h4>

`kubectl logs <name of pod>` can show you corresponding errors in the logs.


<h4>I uploaded the new dictionary, what service should I restart?</h4>

First, restart Peregrine `gen3 roll peregrine` and Sheepdog `gen3 roll
sheepdog`.  After these two services restarted, please portal with `gen3 roll
portal`.  Please note, if you are making significant changes to the dictionary,
you will also need to update `portal_app` in the manifest.


<h4>I branched out the Windmill portal, should I update manifest with a new
version of portal?</h4>

Yes, you can update the manifest to use your version of the portal and use `gen3
kube-setup-portal` or `gen3 roll portal` to changes to take effect.


<h4>How can I update the APP for the portal?</h4>

You can set the `global.portal_app` setting in your manifest to the name of your
windmill configuration file and run `gen3 kube-setup-portal`.


<h4>What I need to restart if I updated Fence configuration with OAuth
credentials?</h4>

Please run `kubectl delete secret fence-config` and `gen3 kube-setup-fence`.  If
you also updated the `user.yaml` in the folder `apis_configs`, you need to run
`gen3 job run useryaml-job`.


<h4>I'm storing `user.yaml` in S3 (not locally) and updated it, how to ensure
changes take effect?</h4>

After you change `user.yaml`, run `gen3 kube-setup-secrets` and `gen3 job run
usersync`.


<h4>I see my data on a Query page, but not in the Exploration page. What other
services do I need to deploy/configure to have it running?</h4>

The Exploration page needs to be set up with Elastic Search using Guppy. Please
refer to the relevant
[Guppy](https://github.com/uc-cdis/guppy/blob/master/README.md) and [Cloud
Automation](https://github.com/uc-cdis/cloud-automation/blob/master/kube/services/guppy/README.md)
documentation, and see an [Sample
Configuration](https://github.com/uc-cdis/data-portal/pull/505) for the Guppy.


## Data Dictionary

<h4>I'm customizing data schema, where I can find information about the data
dictionary customization, variables' definition, and files formatting?</h4>

Please refer documentation about [Creating New
Dictionary](https://gen3.org/resources/operator/#3-creating-a-new-data-dictionary),
[Data Types](https://gen3.org/resources/user/data-types/) and
[Templates](https://gen3.org/resources/user/template-tsvs/)


<h4>I have a dictionary in my local schemas folder, how can I generate the
`schema.json`?</h4>

You can use our [dictionaryutils](https://github.com/uc-cdis/dictionaryutils)
tool.  You can find an example on how to generate JSON in the
[README](https://github.com/uc-cdis/dictionaryutils#use-dictionaryutils-to-dump-a-dictionary)

